O.POYEN - OCtober 2011


Purpose of the software
Python script to create template for MSE (magic set editor)

Available where python & wxpython are.
Compiled as executable for Windows platform
MAC compatibility on-going....

1 Installation
Unzip archive & start designer.exe file
**Edit bgm.ini file and change in the last part the information regarding your MSE setup (path & version)**


2. Screen part details
The interface is divided in the following parts:
- a toolbar on the top, for opening & saving template file & exporting (creating) the Game & Style folder
- a list of fields that can be added to your template - on the left
- a blank card on which you can position your template fields - in the middle
- a tree listing all fields that has been added to your template - on the upper right
- a properties panel for setting the properties of your fields (like name, description, choice images,....)


3. Classical usage
When the software starts, it creates a blank template
You can already set several things in the lower right property grid regarding the game attribute & style attribute (like name, card size, DPI....)
Make sure to fill the game name (Template by default)
Then double click on the elements in the left part of the designer to add them to your template? Let say we want to add 2 text boxes & an image boxes.
Just double click twice on Text and once on Image.
For each of these, a blank rectangle has appeared in the middle of the blank card. You can move them at your will. 
Furthermore, you can edit their properties thanks to the property grid on the right. 
The grid take the majority of the property listed in MSE documentation.

Once you are done, you can:
1) save your template file (with save button in the toolbar). This will allow you to create a small file that you can load latter to rework on your template
2) on, most important, you can export your template. This will create the 2 folders (mse game & style), according to the information you had previously submitted. 

You'll see that any file listed in your template (like the card sample icon used for template representation) will be copied to the created folders. 
Then, you just have to ensure that the 2 folders are copied to your MSE directory & you are good to go.

New in V0.3: thansk to helper functions in the bottom left, you can now directly install in your MSE Path

If the software proves itself useful, I will gladly add installer generator & Set generator based on excel files. 


Known bug & issues:
In the property grid (bottom right) do not fold the properies ("MSE Game properties", "MSE Style properties"). Otherwise, export won't work.


FAQ:
1. Help, my element disappeared from template !
For ease of usage, you can send an element in the background by double clicking it.
It this happen by mistake, just double click on other items to also send them in the background 

2. What about these .tmpl files
Tmpl files are not used by Magic Set Editor. They are used by designer to save the template & reload it later.
No need to save it in the template file

3. How to change my game name ? 
When creating a template, you can change your game name & the style name in the propery grid (bottom right).
First click on the template (either in the middle pane or the root of your elements tree in the upper right panel). 
Then, in the property grid, choose "shortname" to change the game name and 'style short name' to change style short name.
These changes will affect the name of the generated folder (GameName.mse-game & GameName-StyleName.mse-style)

4.How do I work with Choices for 'Choices Images'
Add a choice element to your template. In the property grid, choose 'Choices' in 'MSE Game properties' and add the different label for your change.
Then, in 'MSE Style properties', choose render style to 'Image', for exemple. Then, in choice image, select the image for each Choice label.
On export, the images selected will be copied to your style file.

5. What are these staticimage thinks: To help you design your template, just add a staticimage pointing to an image you want to reproduce. 
Then add your fields as usual. At the end, tou can remove staticimage from the template. If by mistake you export your template, StaticImage won't be exported.

6. How do I work with Set (generating Set from Excel file,...)
You can add a Set like you add a text field. Set has only a name and an excel file.
This excel file is a CSV file with the following columns: 
- Name : (identifier of a card)
- Qt: an integer with the quantity of the card
- One Column with the Name of the Field from your template

You can then fill the CSV file with one line per card with the same template values. 
Link this to your Element Set fields in your template. 
You can now either create a Set (Set Maker button) or directly create all iamges (Image Maker button)


History:
V03:
* add nicer button
* Add Template Installer (just add your mse path to bgm.ini file)
* Designer can now create mse set file based on excel file
* Designer can directly generate batches of image file from a set & based on current template
* add a "duplicate" function, only available by keyboard shortcut: CTRL-D
* add a static image tool: this will load an image in current template to help you set your fields. This static image won't be saved to template
v2: 
*add save as option
*change default name to template
*add set exporter (beta)
*add static image helper

V1: first release
